sometimes I'm walking my
societally acceptable pet and he
just stops and eats grass
why would a cat and or a dog do
something like that
hey there poaceae pet party
people trace and Amy here for
dnews grazing is a word you'd
normally associate with
herbivores like goats or cows or
horses but if given the chance
cats and dogs they'll graze do
which is weird because their
predatory carnivores right
well not entirely though the
felis catus at and Canis
familiaris dogs are both under
the order carnivora some believe
they're actually omnivorous a
study in the journal of
nutrition looked at the diet of
these two domestic pets and
found that their ancient natural
diets are actually relatively
difficult to determine because
they've been living under our
proverbial wing for so long but
they do have preferred diets
which you can see in feral
populations for example cats
like they're hunting ancestors
will tend to eat a number of
small meals throughout the day
mostly meets they learn their
diet from their mother well
kidding especially before
weaning dogs are also influenced
by their mothers diet choices
before weaning but dog feeding
behavior is more diverse simply
because they've been human bread
for so long generally though
feral dogs will scavenge rather
than hunt and domestic dogs can
eat large meals relatively
quickly
probably a holdover from pack
competition but if left to their
own devices
both of these animals will eat
grass cats will do so likely as
a digestive aid they need the
fiber if the cat ate something
they need to flush out of their
system they'll not on some
grasses to help it come up or go
down stuff like bones feathers
or just hairballs
I actually do buy fancy grasses
for my cat Pete and he
definitely doesn't it
you can probably see pictures of
that honor yeah yeah a lot of
them dogs on the other hand
again are a bit more complicated
veterinarians don't exactly know
why dogs eat grass but their
basic explanation paired with a
shrug is likely the same to aid
digestion
perhaps dogs to need fiber in
their diet to help the get
things moving
one thing is clear dogs do not
eat grass in order to
purposefully vomit right
according to one 2008 study and
applied animal behavior science
seventy-nine percent of dogs eat
grass and very few are ill at
the time or will vomit after
they found quote grass-eating
appears to be a normal behavior
and associated with illness
vomiting or dietary deficiency
so if they're not missing
nutrients are fixing our own
illness
then why do they do it no idea
more research is needed
the wolf ancestor of a dog and a
slip that is very similar to a
jackal which naturally eats
plants or fruit when they can't
get their normal prey and on top
of that grass eating has been
observed in wolves and other
wild dogs
some think maybe dogs just like
to taste as silly as it sounds
there is a reason people might
think this both cats and dogs
modify their diet based on their
experiences they get bored
eating the same thing called the
monotony effect and grasses have
a Swedish flavor to human test
subjects so while cats don't
have a sweet receptor dogs do
perhaps dogs eat grass because
they just want a little
sweetness in their life
we might forget because of the
way we subjugate the grass plant
but grass is actually a tasty
treat
turns out grazing in the grass
is gasps baby can you dig it I
can dig it
and so can pets look they might
eat grass but they also eat
their own poop talk about dogs
dogs eat a lot of weird stuff
which is why maybe you should
keep their tongues away from
your face right maybe not
julian has the answer to whether
or not you should write here
there's a myth out there the
dogs mouths are cleaner than
human's this is not true
both humans and dogs mouths both
contain bacteria and lots of it
but there's really no way to
directly compare because while
they are both males
they're completely different
environments are there any other
weird animal behaviors we should
look into for you
we're happy to debug more myths
tell us in the comments and take
a second and subscribe here on
YouTube and while you're at it
check out test-tube plus it's a
podcast show where we get super
deep into a topic every week and
this week we're talking about
very appropriately animal
domestication any did you know
researchers think that dogs were
the first domesticated animals
they did not know
seriously you would know if you
were watching test-tube plus
when it comes out we talk about
stuff like this all the time and
we're talking about how animals
were subjected to do
our whims Amy whims webs right